h5. BLACKBERRY GPS MAINSCREEN

BBTMainScreen is a main screen class that tracks a user's GPS location. The class sends updates every 10 seconds to LOCATION_URL. The most important (and most difficult) part to figure out is how to configure your Criteria and LocationListener. If these aren't configured properly, the Storm will disable its GPS listener temporarily. 

*Please copy the resetGPS() criteria/location listener settings EXACTLY as they are shown.*

<script src="https://gist.github.com/3773117.js"> </script>

h5. SIGNING YOUR CODE

If you run the above code on your BlackBerry Storm, you will get a "GPS not allowed" LocationProvider exception. You need to get your code signed if you want to use the BlackBerry Storm with GPS in your app. To do this, you need to buy a $20 certificate from RIM. 

After you get your certificate, you need to sign your .cod file using "Signature Tool". Before you do this, you need to change your .csi file. For some reason, BlackBerry does not properly configure the .csi file to include ALL requirements. It took me a long time to figure this out. Your .csi file should look like this.

bc. 33000000=RIMAPPSA2
52424200=RIM Blackberry Apps API
52434300=RIM Crypto API - Certicom
52434900=RIM Crypto API - Internal
52435200=RIM Crypto API - RIM
52525400=RIM Runtime API

h5. TESTING

After your code is signed, you can put it on to your BlackBerry, and run it. Running the code should show you your long/lat. If it gives you 0/0, or -1/-1 at first, wait for a minute or two. Resolving the GPS location can take a minute. 

h5. LINKS

"My Last BlackBerry GPS Post":http://www.riccomini.name/Topics/Mobile/BlackBerry/BlackBerryStormGPS/
"My BlackBerry Support Forum Post":http://supportforums.blackberry.com/rim/board/message?board.id=java_dev&thread.id=11845&view=by_date_ascending&page=1
