h5. DOWNLOAD J2SE

If you do not have a JRE installed, you'll need to install this first. Eclipse requires Java 5.0 or higher, but it's recommended that you use the latest release. Download "Java SE Runtime Environment (JRE)":http://java.sun.com/javase/downloads/index.jsp. 

h5. DOWNLOAD ECLIPSE

RIM provides a toy IDE that is not sufficient for real development. Eclipse is an industry standard for Java development, and it's what you should use if you want to develop for the BlackBerry Storm. If you don't have Eclipse installed, download "Eclipse IDE for Java Developers":http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/. 

h5. DOWNLOAD COMPLETE ECLIPSE SOFTWARE UPDATE

Once you have Eclipse up and running, you need to download the "BlackBerry Complete Eclipse Software Update":http://na.blackberry.com/eng/developers/javaappdev/javaeclipseplug.jsp. This package contains simulators for many of the BlackBerry devices, including the BlackBerry Storm, which is also referred to as the 9530. 

h5. INSTALL ECLIPSE BLACKBERRY PLUGIN

Once you've downloaded the BlackBerry Plugin for Eclipse, you need to install it in Eclipse. Follow "these instructions":http://na.blackberry.com/eng/developers/javaappdev/InstallInstructions.doc to do so.

h5. CREATE BLACKBERRY PROJECT

Once you've installed the plugin in Eclipse, you should create a BlackBerry project. To do this, find the Package Explorer in Eclipse. Right click in a blank area of the Package Explorer, and select New > Other (or press Ctrl-N). You should now see a BlackBerry folder in the "Select a Wizard" dialog box. Expand the BlackBerry folder, and select "BlackBerry Project". Give your project a name, and click Finish. 

h5. RUN SIMULATOR

The final step in configuring our project in Eclipse, is to specify that you wish to use the Storm simulator, which is titled 9530-JDE. Before we do this, we need to configure our BlackBerry workspace.

# In the Eclipse IDE, find the BlackBerry menu at the top of the window
# Select "Configure BlackBerry Workspace". A Preferences dialog will appear.
# Under the BlackBerry JDE, select Installed Components
# In the Components box on the right, select BlackBerry JDE Component Package 4.7.0
# Click OK to save your changes

This is the component package that contains the Storm 9530 simulator. The other component packages contain various other devices. As you wish to test other devices, you can switch the component packages here. 

Now that we have told Eclipse which component package to use, we need to specify that we want to use the Storm simulator.

# Right click on your project in the Package Explorer, and select Run As > Run Configurations.
# The Run Configurations dialog will pop up.
# Under the BlackBerry Simulator section, there is an item called DebugServer.
# Select it, and go to the Simulator tab.
# In the Profile drop down, select 9530-JDE.
# This is the BlackBerry Storm simulator. If you wish to test the Thunder, select 9500-JDE.
# Click "run" to run the simulator

That's it! When you hit run, the BlackBerry Storm simulator should kick off. You can now code your test app, and run it on a Storm simulator by clicking Run As > BlackBerry Simulator. 

h5. LINKS

"Java SE Runtime Environment (JRE) 6 Update 11":http://java.sun.com/javase/downloads/index.jsp
"Eclipse Download Page":http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/
"BlackBerry Eclipse Plugins":http://na.blackberry.com/eng/developers/javaappdev/javaeclipseplug.jsp
"BlackBerry JDE Plug-in for Eclipse Installation Instructions":http://na.blackberry.com/eng/developers/javaappdev/InstallInstructions.doc
