* The "The Growing Hadoop Community" talk was an eye opening experience. Given the buzz on Hadoop, I had figured it was much more mature than it actually is.
** In 2007, there were only 3 companies listed in the "powered by" page. In 2008, Facebook was added, as well as ~20 other big names.
* ANSI compliant SQL is coming for Pig in the next month or two (!)
* Oozie (job manager similar to Azkaban) is not impressive.
* Sun is coming out with an AWS clone (and cloned pricing model! ... )
* IBM is trying to be relevant with a strange project called M2 that uses Hadoop to crawl/visualize data sets.
* Cloudera is really trying to do a lot for the Hadoop community. They were very conspicuous at the conference.
** Cloudera + EBS AWS image is available (and apparently pretty fast compared to S3)
** Highlighted Sqoop (SQL -> Hadoop) app
** Big focus on binary packages for projects
** Three presentations: 2 in Administration track, 1 in Intro. They seem to recognize that friction is coming from ops teams. Attempting to show how to integrate it, or bypass ops (cloud hosting).
* There seems to be a war brewing between Hive and Pig. They really don't seem to get along too well.
* Yahoo! is releasing their own Hadoop binary packages (like Cloudera).
* No one really seemed to be able to give me a good answer as to what Cascading is and how it fits in with workflow/job managers. It's also GPL'd, which means a few people are not too happy with it.
* EC2 + S3 for Hadoop is really a great solution.
** EMR is interesting, but a bit limiting for our use case (only can workflow Hadoop jobs). Also, hard to integrate with our staging (non EMR) cluster.
** People are annoyed with 1hr block pricing. Minimum payment blocks are one hour.
** Persisting data from EC2 can be done in two ways: (1) Save to S3 or (2) Save to EBS. When new nodes are brought up, they just pull data from S3/EBS, and begin running.
** Persisting data with Aster involves extra step of loading data into temporary node, and running ncluster_loader to insert the data into your cluster.
** ShareThis (Paco) was very prominent. They leverage EC2 for just about everything (including running Aster in the cloud).
* Hbase is focusing on performance now. Seeing pretty big gains. Heard "Can I issue PIG/SQL queries on Hbase?" question 3 times, and also saw it on Pig mailing list.
* Future proofing map reduce talk was basically a Yahoo! VP explaining why it was a good thing that he broke all of our Hadoop jobs. (0.20 changes)
* Greenplum was never mentioned at ScaleCamp or Hadoop Summit (that I heard). Aster was acknowledged by Hive/Facebook team as another solution (although Netizza was as well ... ).

h5. LINKS

"Oozie":http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/hadoop-core-dev/200906.mbox/%3C1787207751.1244781247474.JavaMail.jira@brutus%3E
"Katta":http://katta.sourceforge.net/
"Summit Papers/Presentations":http://developer.yahoo.com/events/hadoopsummit09/
"Cascading":http://www.cascading.org/
